
###combineReducers

> The combineReducers helper function turns an object whose values are different reducing functions into a single reducing function you can pass to createStore.

> The resulting reducer calls every child reducer, and gathers their results into a single state object.
The state produced by combineReducers() namespaces the states of each reducer under their keys as passed to combineReducers()

> You can control state key names by using different keys for the reducers in the passed object. For example, you may call combineReducers({ todos: myTodosReducer, counter: myCounterReducer }) for the state shape to be { todos, counter }.

返回一个reducer函数:

> @return (Function): A reducer that invokes every reducer inside the reducers object, and constructs a state object with the same shape.

每一个reducer不能返回undefined, 对于不需要其处理的action,它必须返回传给它的state.


###reducer

redux的store会在收到action时调用reducer去处理这个事件。而reducer是一个纯函数，它接收两个参数：当前状态和action，返回新的状态对象。

###action如何链接到store上？

通过connect的mapDispatchToProps.

connect函数详解:

> connect([mapStateToProps], [mapDispatchToProps], [mergeProps], [options])

> Arguments
[mapStateToProps(state, [ownProps]): stateProps] (Function): If this argument is specified, the new component will subscribe to Redux store updates. This means that any time the store is updated, mapStateToProps will be called. The results of mapStateToProps must be a plain object, which will be merged into the component’s props. If you don't want to subscribe to store updates, pass null or undefined in place of mapStateToProps.

If your mapStateToProps function is declared as taking two parameters, it will be called with the store state as the first parameter and the props passed to the connected component as the second parameter, and will also be re-invoked whenever the connected component receives new props as determined by shallow equality comparisons. (The second parameter is normally referred to as ownProps by convention.)

[mapDispatchToProps(dispatch, [ownProps]): dispatchProps] (Object or Function): If an object is passed, each function inside it is assumed to be a Redux action creator. An object with the same function names, but with every action creator wrapped into a dispatch call so they may be invoked directly, will be merged into the component’s props.

If a function is passed, it will be given dispatch as the first parameter. It’s up to you to return an object that somehow uses dispatch to bind action creators in your own way. (Tip: you may use the bindActionCreators() helper from Redux.)

If your mapDispatchToProps function is declared as taking two parameters, it will be called with dispatch as the first parameter and the props passed to the connected component as the second parameter, and will be re-invoked whenever the connected component receives new props. (The second parameter is normally referred to as ownProps by convention.)

**If you do not supply your own mapDispatchToProps function or object full of action creators, the default mapDispatchToProps implementation just injects dispatch into your component’s props.**

mapDispatchToProps这个参数如果是一个函数，它会被赋予dispatch作为函数的第一个参数，以便在函数dispatch一个action。同样，如果参数是一个对象actionCreatorsObject，actionCreatorsObject的每个键对应的值是一个函数actionCreator，这个函数actioncreator可以直接返回一个对象actionTemplate，这个对象会被当成一个action抛出，从而让store更新；函数actionCreator也可以返回一个函数actionCreator，函数actionCreator会被给予dispatch作为第一个参数，使得在这个函函数可以dispatch一个action.