# intro
1. es中词法环境的结构(environment record + outer link)
2. environment type的类型？(decalarative and object)
	2.1 why decalarative? (efficiency, code can be analyzed when compile, not executing)
	2.2 why still object type? (as to 'with', it can't be analyzed before executing)
2. this指向如何确定？
3. 为何区分variable environment和lexical environment?(在'with'中声明函数表达式时，需要区分两者。但都是静态的环境变量。)

# environment structure
> A lexical environment in ES consists of two components: it’s an environment record and a reference to the outer environment.

# environment record type
There are two kinds of environment records in ES5 specification: declarative environment records and object environment records.

### Declarative environment record
> Declarative environment records are used to handle variables, functions, formal parameters, etc. appeared in function scopes (in this case this is very activation object which we know from ES3 series) and catch clauses.

> ***In general case the bindings of declarative records are assumed to be stored directly at low level of the implementation (for example, in registers of a virtual machine, thus providing fast access). This is the main difference from the old activation object concept used in ES3.***

> ***So once again, the main thing which we should understand why it was needed to replace old activation object concept with the declarative environment record is first of all the efficiency of the implementation.***

### object environment type
> In contrast, an object environment record is used to define association of variables and functions appeared in the global context and inside the with-statements. These are exactly those inefficient variable storage implemented as simple objects which we’ve just mentioned above. In this case bindings are the properties of the objects.

> In case of the global context, the variables are associated with the global object itself. Exactly because of this we have the ability to refer them as properties of the global object:

### about 'with'
> Every time when with statement is executed a new lexical environment with object environment record is created. 

### about 'catch'

> Absolutely the same effect has a catch clause — it also replaces the running context’s lexical environment with the newly created one, though in contrast with with statement, catch clause as we said uses declarative record but not the object

# Structure of execution context

> seperation of Variable and Lexical environments  is mainly to distinguish the value of the [[Scope]] property of function declarations (FD) and function expressions (FE).

> we can’t replace VariableEnvironment itself, because a FD can be also called inside the with statement, but in contrast with FE, FD should continue use binding values from initial state, and not from the with-object (we’ll see it on example below).

> This is why, closures formed as function declarations (FD) save the VariableEnvironment component as their [[Scope]] property, and function expressions (FE) save exactly LexicalEnvironment component in this case. This is the main (and actually the only) reason of separation of these two, at first glance the same, components.

# identifier resolution

> Identifier resolution is the process of determining the binding of an identifier appeared in the context using the ***LexicalEnvironment*** component of the running execution context.