lexical enviroment 的内部方法 hasThisBinding ，应该是为了支持 箭头函数 引入的。

箭头函数的 this 是谁？

> A function Environment Record is a declarative Environment Record that is used to represent the top-level scope of a function and, if the function is not an ArrowFunction, provides a this binding. If a function is not an ArrowFunction function and references super, its function Environment Record also contains the state that is used to perform super method invocations from within the function.

Functional Environment Record 的内部属性 [[ThisBindingStatus]] 有三个值: lexical/initialized/uninitialized。对于箭头函数，这里就是 lexical，环境对象上不会有 this 值。

从lexical的语义上来说，它的 this 值是箭头函数声明时那个环境的 this，而非它的词法环境的outer的this。

> A global Environment Record is used to represent the outer most scope that is shared by all of the ECMAScript Script elements that are processed in a common realm. A global Environment Record provides the bindings for built-in globals (clause 18), properties of the global object, and for all top-level declarations (13.2.8, 13.2.10) that occur within a Script.

> Before it is evaluated, all ECMAScript code must be associated with a realm. Conceptually, a realm consists of a set of intrinsic objects, an ECMAScript global environment, all of the ECMAScript code that is loaded within the scope of that global environment, and other associated state and resources.
> A realm is represented in this specification as a Realm Record with the fields specified in Table 20:

> Execution of a Job can be initiated only when there is no running execution context and the execution context stack is empty. A PendingJob is a request for the future execution of a Job. A PendingJob is an internal Record whose fields are specified in Table 24. Once execution of a Job is initiated, the Job always executes to completion. No other Job may be initiated until the currently running Job completes. However, the currently running Job or external events may cause the enqueuing of additional PendingJobs that may be initiated sometime after completion of the currently running
> Each agent has its own set of named Job Queues. 

> The PendingJob records from a single Job Queue are always initiated in FIFO order. This specification does not define the order in which multiple Job Queues are serviced. An ECMAScript implementation may interweave the FIFO evaluation of the PendingJob records of a Job Queue with the evaluation of the PendingJob records of one or more other Job Queues. 

> An agent comprises a set of ECMAScript execution contexts, an execution context stack, a running execution context, a set of named job queues, an Agent Record, and an executing thread. Except for the executing thread, the constituents of an agent belong exclusively to that agent.
> an executing thread may be used as the executing thread by multiple agents, provided none of the agents sharing the thread have an Agent Record whose [[CanBlock]] property is true