# what's lexical environment

词法环境是对es程序中的变量和函数进行解析的规范。可以认为，es中词法环境有两个元素组成: environment record以及outer environment reference。前者存储当前环境中的变量/函数对应的值，后者是一个指向外层环境的指针。一般地讲，可以将环境分为三种：全局环境，模块环境和函数环境。

> A Lexical Environment is a specification type used to define the association of Identifiers to specific variables and functions based upon the lexical nesting structure of ECMAScript code. 

> A Lexical Environment consists of an Environment Record and a possibly null reference to an outer Lexical Environment. 

> An Environment Record records the identifier bindings that are created within the scope of its associated Lexical Environment. It is referred to as the Lexical Environment's EnvironmentRecord

> The outer environment reference is used to model the logical nesting of Lexical Environment values. The outer reference of a (inner) Lexical Environment is a reference to the Lexical Environment that logically surrounds the inner Lexical Environment.

> Lexical Environments and Environment Record values are purely specification mechanisms and need not correspond to any specific artefact of an ECMAScript implementation. It is impossible for an ECMAScript program to directly access or manipulate such values. 

### global environment

> A global environment is a Lexical Environment which does not have an outer environment. The global environment's outer environment reference is null. A global environment's EnvironmentRecord may be prepopulated with identifier bindings and includes an associated global object whose properties provide some of the global environment's identifier bindings. As ECMAScript code is executed, additional properties may be added to the global object and the initial properties may be modified.

### module environment

> A module environment is a Lexical Environment that contains the bindings for the top level declarations of a Module. It also contains the bindings that are explicitly imported by the Module. The outer environment of a module environment is a global environment.

### function environment

> A function environment is a Lexical Environment that corresponds to the invocation of an ECMAScript function object. *A function environment may establish a new this binding. A function environment also captures the state necessary to support super method invocations.*

后半句何解？

# environment record

环境记录是存储环境中的变量/函数的虚拟对象。一般地讲，可以将其分为两种：声明式环境记录和对象环境记录。前者是一般的环境记录，将程序中的生命和函数绑定其上，后者是提供给with这样的语句用，将变量或函数绑定在一个对象上。
环境记录可以认为一个抽象类，有三个子类： declarative Environment Record、object Environment Record和global Environment Record。
函数环境记录和模块环境记录又是声明式环境记录的子类。

> There are two primary kinds of Environment Record values used in this specification: declarative Environment Records and object Environment Records. 
Declarative Environment Records : directly associate identifier bindings with ECMAScript language values. 
Object Environment Records： define the effect of ECMAScript elements such as WithStatement that associate identifier bindings with the properties of some object.

> For specification purposes Environment Record values are values of the Record specification type and can be thought of as existing in a simple object-oriented hierarchy where *Environment Record is an abstract class with three concrete subclasses, declarative Environment Record, object Environment Record, and global Environment Record.* Function Environment Records and module Environment Records are subclasses of declarative Environment Record. The abstract class includes the abstract specification methods defined in Table 14. These abstract methods have distinct concrete algorithms for each of the concrete subclasses.

### decrative environment record

> Each declarative Environment Record is associated with an ECMAScript program scope containing variable, constant, let, class, module, import, and/or function declarations. A declarative Environment Record binds the set of identifiers defined by the declarations contained within its scope.

### object environment record

> Each object Environment Record is associated with an object called its binding object. An object Environment Record binds the set of string identifier names that directly correspond to the property names of its binding object. Property keys that are not strings in the form of an IdentifierName are not included in the set of bound identifiers. 

>  Immutable bindings do not exist for object Environment Records.

> Object Environment Records created for with statements (13.11) can provide their binding object as an implicit this value for use in function calls. 

### function environment record

> A function Environment Record is a declarative Environment Record that is used to represent the top-level scope of a function and, if the function is not an ArrowFunction, provides a this binding. If a function is not an ArrowFunction function and references super, its function Environment Record also contains the state that is used to perform super method invocations from within the function.

function environment record有一个`[[ThisBindingStatus]]`字段，它的值可为`lexical`、`initialized`、`uninitialized`，当为`lexical`时说明是一个箭头函数，无`this`值绑定。

### global environment record

### module environment record

> In additional to normal mutable and immutable bindings, module Environment Records also provide immutable import bindings which are bindings that provide indirect access to a target binding that exists in another Environment Record.

它有一个独有的方法: `CreateImportBinding(N, M, N2)`，作用：
> creates a new initialized immutable indirect binding for the name N. A binding must not already exist in this Environment Record for N. M is a Module Record, and N2 is the name of a binding that exists in M's module Environment Record. Accesses to the value of the new binding will indirectly access the bound value of the target binding.

# 词法环境(LexicalEnvironment)和变量环境(VariableEnvironment)的区别

> LexicalEnvironment: Identifies the Lexical Environment used to resolve identifier references made by code within this execution context.
> VariableEnvironment: Identifies the Lexical Environment whose EnvironmentRecord holds bindings created by VariableStatements within this execution context.

> The LexicalEnvironment and VariableEnvironment components of an execution context are always Lexical Environments.